now contending for the faith in this
regular feature Dave and Tom responded
questions from listeners and readers of
the Berean call here's this week's
question dear Dave and Tom our home
churches a good or bad thing Dave as you
know probably the mail that we get the
greater percentage of it says hey where
can I find a church certainly with the
whole church growth movement with
seeker-friendly Purpose Driven kinds of
things as well as the emergent church as
well as the kind of marketing oriented
ideas that have come into the church it
can be very difficult so our church our
home churches a good or a bad thing well
first of all a definition of a home
church it's just people who are meeting
in their home more than a Bible study
but rather than attending you know a
building somewhere that has a
congregation of 3 or 400 they mesh in
their home invite you know maybe a dozen
people or so and do church right in the
home so is it a good thing or a bad
thing
well let's to find it a little more
clearly just a group of people meeting
to discuss the Bible you have some
people over for dinner as we had by
Sunday and we had quite a nice Bible
discussion and I think there were about
a dozen of us well that's not a church
that's a casual discussion well
supposing we met regularly for Bible
study that's not a church yet if you
meet there to worship the Lord like you
would in a church aim you hang up a
collection huh well while the churches
don't take up a collection right as
stars does not the one I attend doesn't
they have a box of things yeah the one
that I attend has
a box but you go there to worship the
Lord together and then to be taught and
edifying not just for Bible study so
I'll be home Church okay now is it a
good or a bad thing
well that's the only place the church
met at the beginning mm-hmm and Paul
talks about the church that is in your
house so there's nothing wrong with the
home church although we've seen some
examples of them really getting the
heresy turning legalistic but that can
happen in a right oh yeah and a larger
meeting place oh no congregation the
fact that you meet in a home is a not
forbidden V seems to be commended there
were quite a number of them who met in
homes in Paul's day and he commends them
so is it good about well it could be
either so then what do we do about it
well well what was the rest of that
question well just our home church is a
good or bad you know it depends upon the
circumstances in part if you can't find
a church that offers the truth or the
pastor or the teacher whatever is
amenable to some correction or some
discussion you can ask questions
well whoa why did you say that does the
Bible say that let's let's look at it
together if you can't find a place that
is clear or free of heresy and you're
getting false teaching and there's no
other this represents all of them or
you're in a very isolated place and
that's all that is available then I
think you need to have a home church
and I often say to people who write to
us or who ask this question you know
tell them we get this question from
people after we've spoken right well I
just can't find a place a good church to
go to what am I gonna do well I say why
don't you start one start one in your
home and gather people who are
like-minded I mean the Lord will draw
them and I know many churches I know
some very fact the largest calvary
chapel in the world what 25 or 30,000
members it started in a Bible study
every Calvary Chapel that I know of
started in a Bible study and that's the
way most churches started my father
started a couple of Brethren assemblies
they recall they began in his home when
we were living in the town of Merced a
small town there was no church that we
could go to that was worthwhile we had
we had Church in our home we broke bread
as the disciples met together it's a
break bread took communion as people
would call it we have Bible study and
teaching in the home so I would say it
depends upon the circumstances but be
very careful because it's not a small
group can get isolated and you begin to
think you are the only ones and now
there's no one around but me and well
I've reserved 7,000 God says you could
start a cult that way too right and
they've also there are some people that
just go from church to church to church
and no church makes them happy well a
home church for somebody like that could
present a problem because they say not
even like their own home church right so
well then the important thing here too
is you cannot as you said
there are no lone Ranger's out there or
they ought not to be lone Ranger's you
need to have fellowship you need to
forsake not the gathering together you
know with the Brethren and so on well if
they have 30 or 40 in the home church
they could say well we're doing that now
are you really in touch with others are
you willing to you know be corrected or
are you just this is the way it's going
to be now because we we are the only
ones who are right and this is the
purpose of the home church to show that
we're right not because you can't find
fellowship elsewhere that it's
worthwhile but you know we've got these
peculiar ideas and now we're going to
begin something and that's the wrong
attitude so it depends now our final
segment for more information about the
berean call call us toll free at our
order number or visit our website